# Project Name
SQL Challenge

## Overview
This project examines employee data at the fictional company Pewlett Hackard. 
The task is to conduct a research project that looks at employment data within the organization during the 1980s and 1990s. 
Data tables are created in pgAdmin 4 from CSV files that hold the data. Data modeling, data engineering, and data analysis are performed respectively.

## Table of Contents
<a name="required-libraries"></a>
## Required Libraries
The project requires the following Python libraries:
- psycopg2
- pandas
- sqlalchemy

<a name="installation"></a>
## Installation
Steps include install PostgreSQL, pgAdmin, Python, and any dependencies.

<a name="usage"></a>
## Usage
Create a SQL script that defines a table with appropriate columns and data types in PgAdmin 4. 

<a name="data"></a>
## Data
Transferring data from an Excel spreadsheet to a PostgreSQL database using pgAdmin typically involves several steps, including exporting the Excel data to a CSV format and then using the import functionality in pgAdmin. 

<a name="analysis"></a>
## Analysis
Data Modeling: CSV employee file is inspected and Entity Relationship Diagram is created.
Data Engineering: From original CSV file, six tables are created 
 1. department_employee
 2. departments
 3. dept_manager
 4. employees
 5. salaries
 6. titles
Data Analysis: 
Extrapolate data and join tables to get employee names, sex, salary, hires in 1986, department number, department managers, employees in sales departments and specific employee names such as "Hercules" and last name beginning with letter B.

<a name="results"></a>
## Results
Summary of the findings from the analysis is included in Module 9 Data analysis Sheet.

<a name="contributing"></a>
## Contributing
Individual contributer- Nick Nath

<a name="license"></a>
## License
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC,(2022). Realistic Data Generator.

